hey guys so welcome to lingua marina
today we're gonna talk about differences
between
british and american accents there are a
couple of things i want to tell you
before we start
first of all i'm not a native speaker i
was born and raised in russia
lived in russia as i was 25 then i moved
to the us
and all my life i've been coping
different accents because
when i went to the uk for the first time
when i was 14
i was amazed by the standard british
accent and i tried to copy it and then i
came to the us and i understood that
people
don't get what i'm saying if i use my
kind of british accent
so i started learning american accent
and as a person who's been doing that
for a while
my most favorite thing is to dig into
different
details and understand what people do
with their lips and with their mouth is
in order to produce
those sounds another thing i want you to
remember is that there are a lot of
different accents in great britain and
so something that we're gonna
learn today is something that i was
taught at school this is sometimes
called receive pronunciation
if you come to the us california people
would have one accent
people in new york would have a
different accent and it's really up to
you what accent you want to adopt and
you don't have to adopt any accent
it's just you know the matter of your
preference as for myself i decided to
stick to an american accent just because
i live in california but again it's
really up to you
just be consistent if you choose one
type of accent
stick to it to make your life easier now
let's
dig into those tiny differences but
again before we start please hit the
like button for the algorithm
this way it's gonna know who to
recommend this video
rule number one if you want to sound
more british
don't pronounce every single r this is
not true for
every accent out there but in received
pronunciation
in great britain you would only
pronounce the r that is followed by a
vowel
for example real right
arrange umbrella curious
in these words r is followed by a vowel
and this way we pronounce it interesting
but
there are also words where r is in the
end of the word and is not followed by
anything
in this case you do not pronounce it for
example
whether color shirt
beer work it's work
work work i intentionally
try to sound more british when
explaining this because
in america we would always say work
beer weather color but if you want to
sound more british
you pronounce these words without
pronouncing r
color weather what i love the way it
sounds
rule number two you know this th
combination
and it can produce two different sounds
so if we want to sound more british in
both
versions of this sound your tongue
should touch
behind your teeth because i'm speaking
with kind of american accent
my tongue goes between trying to explain
this
my tongue goes between my teeth but if
you're trying to sound more british
it stays here let me give you some
examples teeth
bath it's a bath you're kind of stopping
your tongue with your teeth and you're
not letting it
go between them the broth
you even hear that right it's not like
brother it's brother
brother instantly more british bathe
the same right it kind of stays behind
your teeth by the way fun fact
in london the sound would be pronounced
as f or v
thanks t this is really really cool if
you can learn
that accent as well rule number three
pronounce
you as you or
you again really different from the
american accent
in america we would say stupid stupid
yeah
so you hear sounds like an uh stupid if
you want to sound more british
you would say stupid oh
stupid like even
you can even make it more visible in
order to practice but then you kind of
reduce it when you're actually talking
to people that is stupid
stupid do you hear that it's not stupid
it's stupid
and this is british or another great
example the word duty
in america would say duty in british you
would say
duty there is another thing that you
might have heard
in duty in america where place t with an
r
duty you almost say it with an r in
british it stays as a t duty
by the way the platform that you're
watching right now
i used to call it youtube just because i
learned the british version of it just
because
i heard about youtube when i first came
to the uk
and when i started my silicon valley
girl channel and i got more and more
people from america
they're like why do you pronounce
youtube
it's youtube so in the us it's youtube
because
u is pronounced as u in great britain
it's youtube
because we just learned you pronounced
as
you or you another rule for
british accent is you always need to
stress
the vowels in america we sometimes speak
fast
we don't emit words but we don't put
stress into them like you hear
that i've said we don't put stress on
them it was really fast without any
stress
in british accent you would emphasize
vowels
especially if you only have one vowel in
the word for example
car sure sure
it kind of sounds a little weird
when you practice it but when you start
talking with a british accent it would
really sound british
here so you're stressing the word as a
whole
lunch you're there are also words
with a lot of vowels you don't have to
stress all of them
but you still need to pick the right
vowel to stress
examples arrange prevent
collect driving totally radically
driving in space
so basically in british accent we try to
put a stress in every single word in
american accent there will be words
that don't have any stress at all
they're like helping us
and we don't emphasize them in our
speech there are also some
differences in words in how they
pronounce
in britain for example and in the u.s
one of the brightest examples for me
was the word hub because again in great
britain you would say
herb with the h you would actually read
it
in california we say herbs do you have
any herbs for tea
so there is no h at the beginning of
this word
rule number six something that you
really need to practice if you're
switching to british accent and you've
heard a lot of american accent because
for example in america we say not
hot shot by shaq
so the o in the word is pronounced as a
shot hot something that you have to
learn if you want to sound more british
is uh hot shot so you actually pronounce
those
os shot hot
if you want to sound more british use
more british words i've already talked a
lot about these differences where
we have truck in the us and lori in
great britain we have
gas in the us and we have petrol in
great britain but there are also some
slang words that you can actually use
and sound more british for example when
i first came to the uk
my friend showed me a guy that she
really fancied by the way this is a
british word when you like somebody
you fancy them so she fancied that guy
and she told me
wow that guy is so fit and for me fit
was something
connected with fitness and i was like
maybe he exercises a lot
but in reality fit means something is
really attractive and really good
looking
and sometimes for you that would mean he
exercised a lot but generally
speaking you just need to be cute in
order to be called fit in the uk
he's fit you're fit we're all fit a boy
or a young man can be called
lad in the uk we all know the word
rubbish and america would say garbage
in the uk you would say rubbish but
there is also another meaning to this
when something is kind of stupid you can
say it's rubbish
it was rubbish and the last but not the
least is the word
cheeky i really like it because it kind
of says that you
are humorous and you're funny but
sometimes you can be a little rude
some people can be offended but this
behavior is called cheeky that was
it for me for today guys if you want to
explore more of english language i have
an english language workbook that has a
lot of synonyms
idioms differences between british and
american accent and it has a lot of
exercises for you to practice
the link will be down below you can buy
it it's not really expensive but it
would
provide you with 30 days of continuous
learning of english language i have
different
checklists and different things that you
can print out and hang in front of you
to enhance your language learning
experience and also have the schedule
that you can follow every single day
to improve your english language thank
you again so much for watching this
video up to the very end
hit subscribe button if you're not yet
subscribe to this channel and i will see
you very soon in my next
videos bye